About Us
Founded at the beginning of 2006, the Fox Valley Chinese Dance Group (FVCDG) is a not for profit arts organization that strives to promote traditional Chinese performing arts while nurturing innovations for a broad audiences across the Northeast Wisconsin. FVCDG creates a focus for community pride and inspiration, bridges among local communities, and promotes knowledge, understanding, and appreciation of Chinese arts and culture.

Missions

To promote the rich cultural heritage of Chinese dance by providing a forum for training and by presenting works at professional standards to the public;

To present Chinese performing arts and culture in a newly emerging and changing American culture;

To ensure the Chinese communities preserve their unique individual identity with their culture and tradition;

To strengthen relationship between North Eastern Wisconsin Chinese Association (NEWCA) and Green Bay/Fox Cities/Oshkosh local communities.


What We Do

FVCDG strives to showcase traditional Chinese dance and music to audiences across the local communities. Our activities include performances, workshops, and lecture/demonstrations for any organizations and culture events. The followings are some examples what we have done and are going to present:

Performed at NEWCA Chinese New Year Party on Jan. 28, 2006;

To perform at UW-Oshkosh Asian Heritage Month in Oshkosh, April 3, 2006;

To perform at Ethnic Festival in Washington Middle School in Green Bay, April 27, 2006;

To perform at Wisconsin Chinese Culture Day in Madison, September 2006

Chinese Dance History

Chinese dance dates back nearly 5,000 years. As in most cultures, Chinese dance is closely linked to and reflective of life experiences and concerns. Thus the dances can be divided into (1) CEREMONIAL: for praying to the gods for bountiful harvests; (2) DRAMATIC: for reporting and commemorating historical events; (3) MARTIAL: for demonstrating fighting techniques; and (4) AGRICULTURAL: for celebrating nature and work.  

Like the United States, China is a nation of many different nationalities. Each has its own history, language and tradition, and maintains its own distinct customs and style of dress. The Han makes up the Majority of China's population. Some of the larger minority groups are the Mongols, the Zhuang, the Dai, and the Miao.